The third concert I did not attend, it is a recording for the opening concert of the new Concert Hall of the City of Arts and Culture in Egypt’s new Administrative Capital. The orchestra to perform in this event is the Vienna Philharmonic orchestra with Riccardo Muti as the conductor. The concert started at night at around 7:30 pm on the 21st of November. For the introduction to the concert, the orchestra played the Egyptian national anthem “My Homeland, You Have My Love and My Heart”, then they proceeded to play the Austrian national anthem “Land der Berge, Land am Strome”. Through the recording I watched it was difficult to see exactly how many players there were for each instrument. 
The first piece that was played after playing the national anthem for both countries was by the Classical composer Mozart, Symphony no.35 in D major, K.385, “Haffner”. This was the first piece for me to see that had a percussion instrument. The string section has a lot of players and in this piece they were really impressive, one violin usually stood out from the rest and played a series of higher notes than the rest of the violins. However, it was a little more difficult to hear exactly which instruments stood out from the rest watching this through a computer. The first movement in this piece starts a little slow with all the instruments in unison, until eventually the tempo picks up and the pace of the first movement is revealed. The second movement (Andante) was a little slower than the first one and I felt like the woodwinds had a major part in this movement as I could clearly hear them play. For the third movement which is a minuet, once again the two sections that I hear the most are the woodwinds and strings sections, that could probably be just because of the recording. For the fourth and final movement which is a Presto, once again it starts for a few seconds a little slow then quickly again picks up the pace and the quick tempo is revealed. I really enjoy specifically the final movements in symphonies such as this. It feels refreshing to pick up the pace in the end after slowing it down in the previous movements.
The second piece that was performed was Symphony No.8 in C major, D 944, “The Great”, by one of the members of the first Viennese School Franz Shubert. For this piece the Oboes were clearly heard in the beginning, along with the string section, and I can faintly hear some of the string section plucking their instruments instead of bowing such as the Double Bass. The third movement of this piece was a little faster than the rest. Overall, this symphony has four movements. First movement is Andante - Allegro which starts at a moderate pace then gets a little faster. Second movement is Andante, third movement is a Scherzo which replaced the minuet as a third movement, it felt light-hearted and comical. For the fourth and final movement, it is an Allegro Vivace which is  faster than the rest of the movements in this piece, and in my opinion I feel like ending a piece as long as this with a movement that is faster is a good thing.
Overall, this concert would have been such a great experience to attend, especially because of how difficult it is to get a ticket for the Vienna Philharmonic. Through the recording I was not very able to listen carefully to every instrument, I was able to only identify the ones that were very much clearer than the rest. The pieces performed were a bit lengthy whereas I prefer shorter pieces because it gives a chance for an orchestra to show the diverse works that they play, because the first two concerts I attended had works from the Baroque, classical and Romantic era, which was really interesting to see the contrast in the music of different musical periods.
