















      Niccolò Machiavelli was a 16th century Italian arch-villain, diplomat, and political thinker. Machiavelli’s name invokes everything that is devious about human behavior. Machiavelli wrote The Prince five centuries ago. The Prince is about how to get hold of power and how to maintain it. Machiavelli wrote The Prince in 1513. In The Prince, the nature of love and fear in the relationship between a prince and his people is described in Chapter 17, “Of Cruelty and Mercy and Whether It Is Better to Be Loved than Feared or the Contrary”. There is definitely no one in history who has had more impact on contemporary matters and on political affairs than Niccolò Machiavelli. The Prince is one of the crucial books ever written and an extremely helpful how-to-guide for modern reality. The Prince is one of the most controversial texts in history. In this response paper, I will describe the nature of love and fear in the relationship between a prince and his people and give examples of famous leaders who followed his advice.
      Niccolò Machiavelli’s debate that it is safer to be feared than loved is commonly assumed to imply that The Prince is a manual for despots and oppressors. Conversely, a stronger comprehension exposes that Machiavelli’s claim is a logical expansion of his evaluations of the nature of humans and morality. Nevertheless, I believe that in the Middle East love and democracy do not hold and tyranny is the only force keeping the region together. Machiavelli was gearing his counsel for rulers and kings. According to The Prince, “It may be answered that one should wish to be both, but, because it is difficult to unite them in one person, it is much safer to be feared than loved, of the two, either must be dispensed with” (Machiavelli 119-120). There is an incredibly old notion in Western culture that experts call veneer theory. The notion is that our civilization is merely a wafer-thin veneer and below that layer, raw human nature lives. When a crisis transpires, humans show who they really are. Deep down, humans are selfish. Humans are beasts. Humans are monsters. Fortunately, humans have this civilization that is shielding them from what they really are. The central doctrine of our present capitalist system is that people are selfish. “Because this is to be asserted in general of men, that they are ungrateful, fickle, false, cowardly, covetous, and as long as you succeed, they are yours entirely; they will offer you their blood, property, life, and children; as is said above, when the need is far distant; but when it approaches, they turn against you” (Machiavelli 120). In line with The Prince, “And that prince who, relying entirely on their promises, has neglected other precautions, is ruined; because friendships that are obtained by payments, and not by greatness or nobility of mind, may indeed be earned, but they are not secured, and in time of need cannot be relied upon; and men have less scruple in offending one who is beloved than one who is feared, for love is preserved by the link of obligation which, owing to the baseness of men, is broken at every opportunity for their advantage; but fear preserves you by a dread of punishment which never fails” (Machiavelli 120). Fear is something that you can rely on as a stable emotional foundation to build your power on. Machiavelli was all about power. This is a remarkable moment in The Prince because it is the only moment where he really generalizes about human nature. He says most people are fickle, and you cannot trust them. They are going to do everything that is in their own interest and not in your interest. You have got to make them frightened.
      There are a plethora of examples of Machiavellian leaders. There are various kinds of political leaders. Some political leaders get into power with lofty principles. Moreover, they want to reform. Later, they understand incredibly swiftly that politics is war. These political leaders have to adjust to this situation. Leaders like that can do very well if they are adaptable. On the other hand, Angela Merkel, Bill Clinton, and Tony Blaire are very Machiavellian. They do not need to read The Prince. They know exactly how the laws of power work. If you are in a position of power, you have to play a game. The dynamic does not matter whether it is dictatorship or a democracy. For centuries, The Prince has been inspiring the powerful and the tyrannical. Napoleon read it, so did Stalin. He made notes in the margin. Mussolini even did his dissertation on it. It has always been the book of choice for political operators. It is true that The Prince was the favorite bedside reading of Henry Kissinger and Nixon because they were hardnosed political realists. Part of the fascination of The Prince  is that it shows us what the world looks like when the moral dimensions have been removed from the picture. For Henry Kissinger and Nixon, there was a certain pleasure in reading a book that looked at the world the same way they did. George Bush, the 43rd president of the United States, was a Machiavellian leader. George Bush wanted to stabilize the government and impressed Republican voters by saying he was deeply religious. Even though he promised to diminish tax income for all, he lowered tax income for the upper class only. President Recep Tayyip Erdogan is a Machiavellian leader who outfoxed the 2016 coup d’état attempt. Recently, the President of Russia, Vladimir Putin, ordered an attack or what he called “special military operation” on Ukraine to guarantee the security of Russia’s borders.
      The purpose of The Prince was to be a manual for politically motivated leaders. A political leader can play the game for good or you can play it for ill. However, from Machiavelli’s perspective, it is more crucial to play the game well than to be decent. People have gotten an impression about human nature from conventional humanism and Christianity. This idea of human nature is encouraging us to be good. Machiavelli pays no attention to the day of judgement. Vices and virtues are things you can use to survive. Look at power as it is. Watch the moves of the various people on the chessboard. In A Song of Ice and Fire by George R.R. Martin, those who play the game well are the most Machiavellian. Honorable and honest political leaders guarantee the fall of their state.
