My second concert was a concert and celebration in memory of David Llewellyn Hales, in the same place as my first concert in Ewart Hall, AUC Tahrir Cultural Center on a Thursday night on December 2nd at 8pm.
This concert started a little more late than the other, it started at around 8:25. Once again the orchestra is the same as my first concert, The Cairo Festival Orchestra with John Baboukis as the conductor and Karim Saleh as Concertmaster. The orchestra this time, consisted of a total of 28 players. 3 Flute, 2 Oboe, 2 Bassoon, 2 Horn, 9 Violin, 3 Viola, 3 Violoncello, 1 Double Bass and one player for both Harpsichord and Piano.
Once again the orchestra starts by tuning their instruments together and the oboe is heard more clearly than other instruments. However during this concert because there were many soloists, the orchestra tuned their instruments and with them the soloists did so too. 
For the first piece, it was a recitative from Messiah called “Every Valley” by German Baroque composer George Frideric Handel. This was my first time to ever hear a Tenor vocalist, the sound of his voice felt very powerful. For the same as every vocalist, I find it hard to maintain that tone and intensity for long periods of time, however, these vocalists can do that which is impressive. Baroque era style was obvious due to the Harpsichord once again. This piece was performed by Georges Wanis, Tenor.
Second piece was composed by Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart from Concerto for Bassoon, K.191. The most interesting part for me in this piece was the Bassoon’s solo near the end of the piece, very skillful and impressive. Performed by Tamer Fahmy, Bassoon soloist.
The third piece and perhaps my favorite due to the emotions it delivered is composed by Argentine composer Astor Piazzolla called “Oblivion”. This piece started with the Double Bass plucking the strings which sounded very warm and nice to me. The cello soloist was extremely expressive and the sounds produced were very beautiful. This piece was melancholic yet still beautiful. A violin at the end of the piece produced a screeching sound which matched the atmosphere of the piece, I found that very interesting as that definitely was not a certain specified note, but a sound. Performed by Alaa Abdallah, Cello soloist. For the fourth piece it was also Melancholic yet once again the violin soloist was very expressive and overall I really enjoyed this piece too. “Mélodie” from Orfeo ed Euridice by Italian composer in the classical era, Christoph Willibald Gluck. Performed by Medhat Abdel Salam, Violin soloist.
The fifth piece by Mozart, Rondo for Horn and Orchestra, K.371. The French horn solo for this one was also impressive, lots of quick transitions between notes. The soloist got to perform with no orchestra in the back for more than a minute which was also an impressive section in this piece. The horn sounds deep and powerful, sort of like royal or army music. Performed by Amr Abul’naga, French Horn soloist.
There were many more performances in this concert which is difficult to fit in this paper, however, I can list the most memorable moments for me. One of which was the Clarinet solo by Mohamed Hamdy where he played the Concerto for Clarinet, K.622 by Mozart. I remember this solo was impressive, and was full of Arpeggios which is something I really enjoy. At the very end of the concert, it had no soloist, just the orchestra performing a piece: Brandenburg Concerto No. 3, BWV 1048 by German composer of the Baroque era, Johann Sebastien Bach. I remember the Harpsichord had a major section in this piece in the second movement. What was very memorable for me in this piece was the string section and how intense their playing was in this last piece. Although by that time I was a bit tired due to the long duration of this concert, I was still able to enjoy this last piece which I found to be outstanding. Overall this was also a very pleasant experience. Watching skillful people play music is always a nice thing to see and enjoy.


