
 Naguib Mahfouz was born in Gamaliya, Cairo in 1911. He wrote fifty novels, three hundred and sixty short stories, and several plays. Mahfouz had no biography because he was non-confrontational, cautious, and reserved. Mr. Mahfouz led a routine life, and he was a government employee, novelist, and journalist. N. Mahfouz was very optimistic with the revolution. Naguib Mahfouz depicted the history of the society of Egypt in all his novels and short stories. Some of the characters symbolize the three prophets: Prophet Muhammad, Prophet Jesus, and Prophet Moses. Consequently, Muslims accused Mahfouz of blasphemy. Mr. Naguib Mahfouz was a very peaceful person, and he loved Egypt. He was an Egyptian Nobel laureate. In 1988, Naguib Mahfouz won the Nobel prize for literature for Children of Gebelawi. On August 30, 2006, Naguib Mahfouz passed away. The allegorical implications of many of his short stories are a commentary on the human condition. In this response paper, I will show how Mahfouz portrays the themes of life and time in the stories I have read.
      Naguib Mahfouz depicts a myriad of themes of life and time in “Zaabalawi.” The first thing that opens this story is that this is a man who cures illnesses. Zaabalawi is a figure of a person who is a savior and has this capacity of healing illnesses. “Zaabalawi” according to Mahfouz was his extremely successful short story. It was the first short story that was extremely successful that it brought him a lot of money. In line with “Zaabalawi,” “However, he had replied, ‘May his blessing descend upon you, he’s a true saint of God, a remover of worries and troubles. Were it not for him I would’ve died miserably-’” (Mahfouz 1). That is what the father of the protagonist says about Zaabalawi. From the beginning, our eyes are open to this enigmatic character Zaabalawi who heals and who is a remover of worries and of troubles and a is a true saint of God. “‘Do those who need him suffer as I do?’ ‘Such suffering is part of the cure’” (Mahfouz 7). A lot of times when people are under oppression and under trouble, socially speaking, they resort to God because God will be their refuge. They will find refuge in God because they do not have any refuge in the government. They do not have any hope in the government, so what they tend to lean to is God. “Zaabalawi” is a quest. It is a search from the very beginning. 
      Naguib Mahfouz describes numerous themes of life and time in “The Conjurer Made off with the Dish.” Mr. Mahfouz wrote “The Conjurer Made off with the Dish” in the late 1960s. The setback happened in the late 60s in Egypt. It was full of confusion, absolute absence of freedom, collective arrests of intellectuals, severe censorship, pervasive growth of corruption, and confiscation of possessions. The revolution promised a lot to its people. The 1952 revolution promised a lot of democracy, a lot of wealth, a lot of freedom, but what happened was the setback in 1967 put the intellectuals in some kind of disillusion and some kind of loss of faith in the leader and in the revolution itself. It was a very bleak time in Egypt. The 1967 setback was symbolic of utter disillusion of the revolution. Writers became really depressed. Naguib Mahfouz was one of them. He passed through bleak depression because of this setback.
      Naguib Mahfouz portrays a plethora of themes of life and time in his short story “Half a Day.” “Half a Day” is an allegory. An allegory is a story with two meanings, a literal meaning, and a symbolic meaning. The allegory is in life. In line with “Half a Day”, “‘Why school?’ I challenged my father openly. ‘I shall never do anything to annoy you’” (Mahfouz 55). In line with “Half a Day”, “Living beings were drawn to other living beings, and from the first moments my heart made friends with such boys as were to be my friends and fell in love with, so that it seemed my misgivings had no basis” (Mahfouz 56). Family and relationship fulfillment signifies that when a person has happy and healthy relationships with his colleagues, family, and friends, they will have the essential fundamentals for total success and happiness in life. In line with “Half a Day”, “‘I’m not punishing you,’ he said, laughing. ‘School’s not a punishment. It’s the factory that makes useful men out of boys. Don’t you want to be like your father and brothers?’” (Mahfouz 55). The youngest members of a family frequently look up to their elders. In accordance with “Half a Day”, “‘Go in by yourself,’ said my father, ‘and join them. Put a smile on your face and be a good example to others’” (Mahfouz 55). According to “Half a Day”, “‘My father,’ I whispered. ‘My father’s dead,’ he said quite simply” (Mahfouz 56). Death is inevitable, and it is the utmost testimonial of being. In line with “Half a Day”, “He stretched out his arm and said gallantly, ‘Grandpa, let me take you across.’” (Mahfouz 58). Life is but half a day. It is half a day from sunrise to sunset. This applies to everybody. The shortness of life indicates that humans have to accept life circumstances because humans are only here for a short time.
      “Zaabalawi” is about a quest for spiritual fulfillment. In “The Conjurer Made Off with the Dish,” Naguib Mahfouz was trying to say implicitly that the revolution deceived us. We assumed that the revolution was going to put food on our tables and to tend to the economic needs of the country. The dish is the economic needs. Gamal Abdel Nasser is the conjurer. The peep show is the world of fantasy. Egypt is the single mother because a woman usually symbolizes Egypt. “Half a Day” is a lifetime.
