      The Apology of Socrates is Plato’s account of the defense Socrates gave at his trial. The Apology of Socrates is the Defense of Socrates. As a legal defense, it failed because Socrates’ tone often seems flippant and inappropriate. Socrates was found guilty and sentenced to death. Socrates was accused of impiety and corruption of the youth. In this critical analysis paper, I will analyze the nature, technique, and trials that threaten the rational way of living from the Platonic viewpoint, and I will argue for my own perspective on the Socratic/Platonic vision of the philosophical way of life.
      A philosopher must be an adept speaker. For a rational thinker, being a skilled speaker does not incorporate the utilization of fancy phrases and words. Instead, being an adept speaker implies that they always speak the truth using the first words that come to mind. According to Plato, “—unless indeed they call an accomplished speaker the man who speaks the truth” (Apology 17b). In line with Plato, “From me you will hear the whole truth, though not, by Zeus, gentlemen, expressed in embroidered and stylized phrases like theirs, but things spoken at random and expressed in the first words that come to mind” (Apology 17b). Therefore, the brilliance of a speaker lies in telling the truth. According to Plato, “for the excellence of a judge lies in this, as that of a speaker lies in telling the truth” (Apology 18a).
      A rational thinker must be very conscious that they are not wise. According to Plato, “I am very conscious that I am not wise at all” (Apology 21b). When a philosopher does not know, they do not think they know. A rational thinker must not think they know what they do not know. In accordance with Plato, “whereas when I do not know, neither do I think I know; so I am likely to be wiser than he to this small extent, that I do not think I know what I do not know” (Apology 21d). In other words, a rational thinker must be conscious of knowing nothing. As stated by Plato, “for I was conscious of knowing practically nothing” (Apology 22d).
      When a critical thinker takes a position that they think to be ideal, they must persist and cope with peril without dread of death. According to Plato, “wherever a man has taken a position that he believes to be best, or has been placed by his commander, there he must I think remain and face danger, without a thought for death or anything else, rather than disgrace” (Apology 28d). To a philosopher, fearing death is identical to thinking themselves wise when they are not or to think that they know when they know nothing. In line with Plato, “To fear death, gentlemen, is no other than to think oneself wise when one is not, to think one knows what one does not know” (Apology 29a). A philosopher must never be afraid of matters of which they do not know. A critical thinker must never avoid matters of which they do not know. In accordance with Plato, “I shall never fear or avoid things of which I do not know” (Apology 29b). A true philosopher never stops practicing philosophy. According to Plato, “I shall not cease to practice philosophy” (Apology 29d). In line with Plato, “I say that it is impossible for me to keep quiet because that means disobeying the god” (Apology 38a).
      For a rational thinker, it is evil and disgraceful to do harm or to defy one’s leader. According to Plato, “I do know, however, that it is wicked and shameful to do wrong, to disobey one’s superior, be he god or man” (Apology 29b).
      Philosophers must investigate themselves and others. A rational thinker must be ready to question anyone whether they be rich or poor. According to Plato, “I am equally ready to question the rich and the poor if anyone is willing to answer my questions and listen to what I say” (Apology 33b). A philosopher must not charge anyone for having a philosophical discussion. In line with Plato, “I have never begrudged this to anyone, but I do not converse when I receive a fee and not when I do not” (Apology 33b). Hence, a philosopher must not be a sophist. Sophists were itinerant teachers who charged fees to teach young men virtue/excellence.
      He went about his mission by employing the Socratic method – elenchus. Socrates asked questions until the person produced a contradiction – this showed that the person did not know what he had claimed to know. And Socrates often did this publicly to important people, leaders in society. He made them look stupid and also like frauds.
      Defamation constantly threatens philosophers. Interlocutors tend to dislike their inquisitors. Impiety and corruption of the young are accusations that threaten philosophers. According to Plato, “These earlier ones, however, are more so, gentlemen; they got hold of most of you from childhood, persuaded you and accused me quite falsely, saying that there is a man called Socrates, a wise man, a student of all things in the sky and below the earth, who makes the worse argument the stronger” (Apology 18b).
      I adamantly support the Socratic/Platonic vision of the philosophical way of life. The Socratic/Platonic vision of the philosophical life is exceedingly relatable to my professional life. As I am a Computer Engineering major, I study Discrete Mathematics. In Discrete Mathematics, we learn to construct mathematical proofs that follow the same logic as the Socratic method - elenchus. We call this method proof by contradiction. It starts by presuming a statement is false or the negation of the statement is true. Then, it attempts to show that this idea leads to an absurdity. Once we reach a contradiction, a statement that is always false, we conclude that the original statement must be true. The Socratic/Platonic vision of the philosophical life is exceptionally relatable to my personal life. I believe that saying the truth should be always encouraged because lying always gets people in trouble. Moreover, I think that the ability to explain complex ideas in simple words shows that we utterly understand these ideas. The Feynman Technique is a way of studying that I use to evaluate my understanding of a subject by explaining ideas to others. Arrogant scholars and academics who believe they know everything and possess wisdom are unaware that human wisdom is worth nothing. It is extremely important for everyone to live such a life, so that they do not become misguided by irrational people who possess either religious or political authority. I believe that questioning authorities like religious institutions and governments is essential because they tend to have their own questionable and often irrational agendas and ideas that they try to forcefully impose on society. The only criticism I have for Socrates is his lack of practicality. When given the choice of living in exile or dying, he chose death. The death of Socrates was a tad foolish.
      In conclusion, the nature of a Platonic/Socratic philosopher incorporates being truthful, humble, unafraid of death, inquisitive, and methodical. The Socratic vision of the philosophical way of life is relatable to any rational individual. It is vital for everyone to live such a life for the greater good of the society. However, if everyone became purely rational, what would this sameness and monotony trigger in society?








